l10n/README.md, before:

## Libpalaso Localization

### Using localizations in a project

1. Add a Nuget dependency on libpalaso.l10ns to the project where you initialize the L10nSharp `LocalizationManager`
2. Add a build step to copy the Palaso.%langcode%.xlf files to the correct folder in your project

### Updating Crowdin with source string changes (automatic)

On each commit to `master`, a GitHub Action runs to
- Extract all internationalized strings from all libpalaso projects to `../DistFiles/Palaso.en.xlf`
- Upload Palaso.en.xlf to [Crowdin](https://crowdin.com/project/sil-common-libraries)

See `../.github/workflows/l10n-source.yml`

It can also be run manually as follows:
```
msbuild l10n.proj /t:UpdateCrowdin
crowdin upload sources -i CROWDIN_PROJECT_ID -T CROWDIN_ACCESS_TOKEN
```

### Building a NuGet package with the latest translations

This process is run manually from a github action whenever a package with updated translations is needed
(See `../.github/workflows/l10n-packaging.yml`)

It can also be run manually on a developer machine as follows:
```
crowdin download --all -i CROWDIN_PROJECT_ID -T CROWDIN_ACCESS_TOKEN
msbuild l10n.proj /t:PackageL10ns
nuget push -ApiKey TheSilNugetApiKey SIL.libpalaso.l10n.nupkg
```

Commit message:

Auto-publish Localizations on Tag (#1286)
* Publish l10ns to NuGet when a version tag is pushed

* Remove unmaintained XLF files from DistFiles
* Download XLF files from NuGet as a build step
* Ignore all *.xlf files
* Update SIL.Windows.Forms.TestApp to work without Palaso.en.xlf

* Remove Mono 5 compensation: we have been using Mono 6 for a while.
(Mono 5 didn't GeneratePathProperty for PackageReferences)

* Fix AppVeyor Build
On AppVeyor (but not on TeamCity or my Win 11 dev box), the L10NSharp string extraction log added 331 lines to the console output, causing Get10LinesAsync to fail.

* Enable CommandLineRunnerTests Get10LinesAsync on Linux
Now that the SUT has been reorganised, or perhaps due to Mono changes, it works.

* Move CommandLineRunnerTestApp to its own app
Including it in another test app was confusing, complicated, and fragile.

l10n/README.md, after:

## Libpalaso Localization

### Using localizations in a project

1. Add a Nuget dependency on libpalaso.l10ns to the project where you initialize the L10nSharp `LocalizationManager`
2. Add a build step to copy the Palaso.%langcode%.xlf files to the correct folder in your project

### Updating Crowdin with source string changes (automatic)

On each commit to `master`, a GitHub Action runs to
- Extract all internationalized strings from all libpalaso projects to `../DistFiles/Palaso.en.xlf`
- Upload Palaso.en.xlf to [Crowdin](https://crowdin.com/project/sil-common-libraries)

See `../.github/workflows/l10n-source.yml`

It can also be run manually as follows:
```
msbuild l10n.proj /t:UpdateCrowdin
crowdin upload sources -i CROWDIN_PROJECT_ID -T CROWDIN_ACCESS_TOKEN
```

### Building a NuGet package with the latest translations

This process is run by a github action whenever a version tag is pushed and manually as needed
(See `../.github/workflows/l10n-packaging.yml`)

It can also be run manually on a developer machine as follows:
```
crowdin download --all -i CROWDIN_PROJECT_ID -T CROWDIN_ACCESS_TOKEN
msbuild l10n.proj /t:PackageL10ns
nuget push -ApiKey TheSilNugetApiKey SIL.libpalaso.l10n.nupkg
```
